.TH apertium-crossdics 1 2008-03-24 "User Commands" "Apertium"
.SH NAME
apertium-dixtools \- This application is part of (
.B apertium 
)
.PP
This tool is part of the apertium open-source machine translation
toolbox: \fBhttp://www.apertium.org\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apertium-dixtools
{
[add-same-gender <morph> <bil> <out>] |
[apertiumize <txt> <out>] |
[complete-translation <bil> <src-dot> <trans-dot>] |
[convert-mf <morph> <bil> <out> ] |
[cross <monA> <-r|-n> <bilAB> <-r|-n> <bilBC> <monC> crossmodel] | 
[dic-reader [list-paradigms | list-lemmas | list-definitions | list-pairs] dic ] | 
[dix2trie <dic> <lr|rl> <out>] | 
[equiv-paradigms <dic> <out>] |
[format <-mon|-bil> <doc> <out>] |
[format-1line <-mon|-bil> <doc> <out>] | 
[get-bil-omegawiki <source-lang> <target-lang> <dic>] |
[merge-morph <monA> <monB> <merged>] |
[merge-bil <-r|-n> <bilAB1> <-r|-n> <bilAB2> <merged>] |
./"[prepare-dic <bil> <missing-entries>] |
[process-xincludes dic out] |
[reverse-bil <dic> <out>] | 
[sort <-bil|-mon> <dic> <out>]
}

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR apertium-dixtools
is a tool for manipulating dictionaries in Apertium format, both monolingual
(morphological analysis) and bilingual.
.PP
add-same-gender
.RS 4
add entries with the same gender
.RE
.PP
apertiumize
.RS 4
convert a dictionary from text to apertium format
.RE
./".PP
./"complete-translation
./".RS 4
./"
./".RE
./".PP
./"convert-mf
./".RS 4
./"
./".RE
.PP
cross
.RS 4
crosses a pair of bilingual dictionaries, where one language is common, and 
outputs a bilingual dictionary of the other two languages
.RE
.PP
dic-reader
.RS 4
.B list-paradigms
.R lists all paradigms in a dictionary
.PP
.B list-lemmas 
.R lists all lemmas in a dictionary
.PP
.B list-definitions
.R list definitions
.PP
.B list-pairs
.R list pairs
.RE
.PP
dix2trie
.RS 4
converts a bilingual dictionary to trie format, for use with 
apertium-diclookup
.RE
.PP
equiv-paradigms
.RS 4
checks a dictionary for duplicate paradigms
.RE
.PP
format
.PP
format-1line
.RS 4
formats the appearance of a dictionary; with entries split over multiple
lines, or on a single line, respectively.
.RE
.PP
get-bil-omegawiki
.RS 4
imports a bilingual dictionary from a local omegawiki installation
.RE
.PP
merge-bil
.PP
merge-morph
.RS 4
merge dictionaries
.RE
.PP
prepare-dic
.RS 4

.RE
./".PP
./"process-xincludes
./".RS 4
./"
./".RE
.PP
reverse-bil
.RS 4
reverse the order of a bilingual dictionary, swapping entries from left to
right and vice-versa
.RE
.PP
sort
.RS 4
sorts a dictionary alphabetically
.RE
./" FIXME: what do the options do???
./".SH OPTIONS

.SH SEE ALSO	
.I apertium\-crossdics\fR(1),
.I lt-proc\fR(1),
.I apertium-translator\fR(1),
.I apertium\fR(1).
.SH BUGS
./" None! We write quality software!
./" We can't be held responsible for low quality users.
./" (j/k)
Lots of...lurking in the dark and waiting for you!
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Enrique Benimeli Bofarull

Copyright (c) 2008 Universitat d'Alacant / Universidad de Alicante.

This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms
of the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

